Taking advantage of the fact that in Java 8 you can have
default and static methods in interfaces,
with JUnit 5, you can move methods annotated with Test,
BeforeEach, and AfterEach to an interface and have your Test class
implemented to use those methods. We haven't revealed yet
annotations like ParameterizedTest, ExtendWith, and the others shown
here. But just for completion sake,
you can also have methods with these annotations in an
interface. And as a special case, methods annotated with
BeforeAll and AfterAll must be static.
This is not a problem because Java 8 interfaces also allow static
methods. But if you want to use default methods,
remember to annotate the interface with TestInstance,
passing Lifecycle.PER_CLASS to change to a PER_CLASS
lifecycle mode. So in a few words,
anything you can put in a test class can be moved to an interface.
For this demo, let's move some methods from the
RewardByConversionService test class to an interface.
Let's create an interface, TestHelper, and have our Test class implement it.
Let's pull up some methods to the interface, like correctPoints,
getEmptyOrder, and getSampleOrder, without making them abstract. Field
reward is private and will not be accessible.
Okay, we'll fix this. To get a reference to the reward
service, I'm going to define a method,
getRewardService, and I'll replace reward with getRewardService.
And in my Test class, I'm going to implement this
method to return the reward instance.
If I run the class, yes,
everything works fine. But let's not stop here. In case you haven't tried,
we can have more than one method annotated with BeforeEach or AfterEach.
So I'm going to add a BeforeEach method to the interface and run it again.
You can see how the BeforeEach method defined in the interface is also called.
We can also have BeforeAll and AfterAll methods in the interface.
Just remember that they must be static.
Or we can change the lifecycle mode to PER_CLASS to use
default methods. But this annotation will also change the lifecycle mode of the Test class, so use it only when you really need to.